Open Truss uses nested composable configurations to define everything in the system. This allows for its users to share and build on each other's work and for the community to help create reusable configurations.

# Config Spec v0.0.2

## Key concepts

- **frameWrapper** - A component to wrap each `frame` with.
  - They are OpenTruss components and thus take in the standard props.
  - In addition, they also accept props for the frame's configuration and the path to the current frame in the workflow configuration.
  - This is optional and helpful for adding custom behavior to frames. For example, the config builder adds overlays to edit and delete frames.
- **signals** - This is a global state store that can be accessed by all parts of the workflow.
  - This will allow us to easily share state across workflows, components, and data.
  - Workflows, components, and data declare what signals they need and we can validate at config compile time when the workflow is not configured with the needed signals. If a signal is is missing we can do things like show a warning to the user or auto-suggest adding signals to their config.
  - **Making OT components reactive to signal changes**
    - **`useSignals()`** - Calling `useSignals()` inside of the component re renders the entire component when a signal is updated. For simplicity, this is the generally recommended hook.
    - **`useSignalEffect(callback)`** - The callback will be run when the code is initially called and anytime a signal inside of the callback is updated.
    - **`computedSignal = useComputed(callback)`** - A computed signal is generated. The callback will be run when the code is initially called and anytime a signal inside the callback is updated.
    - signals-react docs - https://www.npmjs.com/package/@preact/signals-react
- **frameRender** - This is tells the render how to render the current level of frames.
  - By default it will render frames inline.
  - The `sequence` annotation tells the renderer to render only one frame at a time. We will pass in navigation functions into components which will allow them to tell the render to move to the next / prev frames. We can persist a cursor to local / server storage saying where the user is in the workflow and the renderer can use that to render the appropriate frame on page load.
- **storedQuery** - This data type tells the renderer to use stored queries to fetch results.
  - If the current url matches `/stored_queries/id/sessions/id`
    - it issues a GET request to fetch results from that url (it shows a loading indicator while results are being fetched by the stored query backend)
    - else if there are signals in the global store that match the parameters needed for the query
      - It sends a POST to create stored query, sets the cursor for the current location in the workflow, then redirects to the stored query url returned by the POST. The redirect will trigger the first part of this condition.
    - else redirect the user back to the beginning of the workflow.
  - The `pageSize` annotation sets how many results to show per page. Default 1.
  - Components will be given navigation functions. There will be a navigation function that moves to the next page of results (e.g. increments the pagination, fetches more results, and re-renders the frame).
- **Local / server store** - We can persist values to local storage or the server.
  - This is useful for persisting workflow and pagination cursors among other values.
  - For the server store, we can add a `store` column to the workflow sessions table to hold arbitrary json data.

## Sample configuration

```yaml
# Worfklow name: Get all issues for a given user
# This is a multi-stage workflow
# 1. Show input form to add account_id
# 2. User inputs account_id
# 3. Shows list of issues belonging to that account_id
workflow:
  version: 1
  signals:
    - accountId: number
  renderFrames: InSequence
  frameWrapper: ConfigBuilderFrameWrapper
  frames:
    - frame:
      view:
        component: OTInputForm
        props:
          fields:
            - :accountId
    - frame:
      data:
        query: >\n
          SELECT id AS issue_id
          FROM issues
          WHERE author_id = :accountId
        params:
          accountId: :accountId
        transforms:
          mapColumns:
            issue_id: issue_ids # TableOfContent
        type: StoredQuery
        pageSize: 50
        source: mysql1
      frames:
        - frame:
          view:
            component: OTStoredQueryToolbar
        - frame:
          view:
            component: OTUserViewer
            props:
              userId: :accountId # example of aliasing a signal to a different prop name
        - frame:
          view:
            component: TableOfContent
            props:
              contentIds: :issue_ids # example of argument aliasing
              contentType: issue
```
